# Genotype-Percent-Calculator (GPC)
A tool to calculate the percentage of genotype calls in sets of samples. 
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Use at your own risk. I cannot provide support. All information obtained/inferred with this script is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.
ABOUT:
This program provides a quick way to compare the genotype calls in sets of samples from a multi-sample VCF.  The inputs are a table of chromosome, position and genotypes (GT) generated by bcftools (bcftools query -f '%CHROM %POS[\t%GT\t]\n' input.vcf.gz), and a two column list of sample names and their association. There are three allowable states: +, - and 0.  Samples assigned a + are considered cases, samples assigned a – are considered controls, and samples assigned a 0 are ignored.  For example:  

Sample1 	+

Sample2	-

Sample3	+

Sample4	-

Sample5	0


In the above example, the GPC program will calculate the percent 0/0, 0/1 and 1/1 calls for both cases and controls for every variant in the input genotype table created from a VCF.  The output is a table listing the chromosome and position of the variant and the percentages.  

PREREQUISITES:
       
    1. C++ compiler (for example GCC/G++) 
INSTALLATION:
This program should work on all systems. Dowload the .cpp file and compile according to your system. For Linux Ubuntu, compile with g++ (g++ -o GPC_1 genotype_percent_calculator_V1.cpp).
TO RUN:

./GPC_1 InputGenotypeTable.txt InputCaseControlTable.txt > output.txt

Example input and output files are found in the example data directory.  
